12 feet down imagine you're trapped in a public
swimming pool sounds kind of fun right wrong even
though it has the same appeal as being locked into
a christmas warehouse in the following movie it is
a little different mind you that this movie is
based on a real story so before you murder me
please refer to my disclaimer in my pinned comment
and with that said let's get it on this is Bree
the sister of a former sugarhead about to get
married and more or less a stable person she looks
good she has a career going on and her handsome
husband proposed to her just a few weeks ago
much other than her sister Jonna as mentioned
she is an addict and therefore of course she's
unstable she just got out of rehab but it seems
like she failed because there was a syringe in
her car and she does what every other addict
does blaming her problems onto other people
with that said say no to drugs kids please unless
they're legal or they're green anyway they meet
up at the local swimming hall for a swim the
pool normally closes at 7 pm but today it's
friday before the holiday weekend and so they
closed much earlier our girls didn't expect it
and so they bugged out hurry out of the water
pack their stuff and leave but before they can
do so Jonna sees the engagement ring of Bree lying
at the ground of the pool it's pretty remarkable
to see the tiny thing on the ground of a pretty
deep pool i mean i struggle reading stuff on my
laptop without eyeballing my girlfriend who sits
180 degrees next to me but regardless of all of
that Bree tries to recover her ring that's all
good and stuff but the pool is about to close
perhaps she should have told the guard first
before heading back into the water the ring
is stuck firmly and she can't get it out even
with the help of her sister she can't release it
yeah um well that could have been avoided
by walking 20 meters over and let john know
to hold up a second but let's rewind that okay
let's have a look at what happened here losing
your jewelry in a public pool is something most
people can relate to it just happens to every
one of us and if we're honest you just shouldn't
wear any important or expensive jewelry within
such a place the only thing worse than wearing
your giant diamond ring in a public swimming pool
is to stuff it into your bag and leave it on
a bench nearby i mean what you gotta have a
lot of faith in humanity to do that not me
though heck i don't even leave my grocery
cart out of sight when shopping she could have
easily just left her expensive stuff in her car
so our two girls end up being stuck below the
fiberglass cover of the pool that sucks but they
have about half a meter left to breathe the pool
is heated which is great and there are various
floating lane ropes around as well that is great
because if you're stuck in there for a few days
you are very happy to have something that you can
rest on now if you are in this position then what
can you do well first of all we have to admit
that it's already bad to be stuck in a position
like that but the only thing worse than being
there is being stuck with an unstable person
which uh every addict kind of is now before you
bash me because you think i'm bashing an addict i
don't i should think her behavior is unnecessary
and makes this whole situation a lot worse
and you really don't want that in this situation
right i mean imagine dying and the person next
to you just keeps on talking [ __ ] no thanks
but for now let's look at the broader situation
first it's holiday weekend right so it is likely
that nobody will come in for the next three days
and you better get this into your head your
only hope therefore is that either a janitor
will notice you or the police comes in checking
after someone has made your disappearance public
since this place was the last place you visited
there is a good chance someone will come and check
these are two realistic options but none
of them require any action on your side
and while it's reassuring to know that you may be
rescued by a third force you should still try to
find a way out of there yourself anything else
would be a waste of your time the first thing
they do which i think is a great idea is checking
the fiberglass cover and see if there is a way to
break out of there now knowing fiberglass is quite
elastic and given the water you don't really have
a ground to push yourself up from it doesn't
look like that could actually work but if you
want to give it a chance your best shot will be
near the center of the cover what you could try
is releasing all but one of those lane ropes put
them side by side and see if the buoyance force
is strong enough to carry you if so try to lay on
it and press against the fiberglass with your feet
while the other person stabilizes the raft you may
be able to build up enough force to break through
if not then well at least you have tried and since
you have left one rope aside you still have one
to rest on during your time down there which is
important because i believe removing those from
their fixture is difficult but putting them back
on probably even harder if not impossible to begin
with our girls don't do any of that and look
for an alternative bree has the brilliant idea
to remove the filter frame on the ground of the
pool and use it to break through the fiberglass
that's a pretty smart idea not gonna lie yet they
don't commit to it because well jonah's opinion
seems to matter which is a bad thing because
you see the main issue that i have with her is
her negativity the main problem of an addict is
the lack of responsibility and so being stuck
with an irresponsible person means that you are
pretty much on your own so to conserve my energy
i wouldn't even bother communicating my plans to
the other person i would just do whatever the hell
i want to do without her in my mind because
if you invite opinion of a negative person
you literally invite negativity into your brain
and in this situation this is more than just bad
we need to check all the sales and edges
maybe there's a weak spot somewhere
i agree with Bree here i would circle the pool and
check if i can find anything that can be useful
is anything that i wear useful any jewelry
any ropes attached to your swimsuit
in this environment everything not fixed becomes
valuable and often coming up with a plan is easier
when you know what you have at your disposal
the ring on the ground would be the first one
that i would recover and here is why we can see
those screws holding the fiber plates together
all over the place they're around 10 screws
per each fiber plate if you can just find one
of those screws being loose enough to screw it
off i am pretty sure you will be able to push up
one of these tiles and considering they're
around 75 plates making up the whole cover
there are on 700 screws you could try your
luck on oh well that's that's great because
first of all you have something to do while
you're down there and statistically speaking
it's a very promising strategy and the ring could
possibly be used as a tool to unscrew the screws
but for now let's screw all of that and let's see
what's happening next in the movie well this is
Diana she is the lovely janitor of this place she
is an ex-convict but we don't judge people's pasts
here right we only judge people based on their
present well she just got fired a few hours ago
i haven't shown you but she tried to
steal 20 bucks from a lost and found purse
yeah that was a dumb move sister but not just that
but she's also on parole she really didn't think
that through now considering she's a next con
she's definitely she definitely has some issues
right so i guess we can conclude that as an
ex-convict she is probably an outcast in society
she is probably emotionally unstable as well plus
she's definitely lacking any sort of authority
well until now and that is a point right
underdogs are suckers for positions of
power and power in the hands of crooks becomes
abusive very quickly i mean just look at politics
so Diana ends up blackmailing the two girls with
the phone she has found in bree's purse now before
we turn the tables there is one minor thing i
haven't mentioned yet Bree is diabetic and she
is desperately in need for her shot if she doesn't
get one soon she will run the risk of passing into
a coma and in this situation we can assume that
that will kill her i am telling you this because
there is a clear hierarchy of priorities here the
first one is getting bree to have her insulin shot
and only second is to get out of there hear
me out on this if we consider the worst
possible case here which is they aren't able
to escape the pool before the weekend is over
then not much would happen it would certainly
not kill them it would suck and it is certainly
dangerous but pool water isn't that toxic so you
can safely drink that for what it's worth you see
surviving without water is possible for about 3
days but having so much water available you can
easily survive much longer in fact they would
have no problem surviving as long as necessary
until the pool opens its doors again and with the
lane ropes available you could even put together a
raft to sleep on i'm telling you this because well
have a look "i have your phone and it's blinking
looks like it needs a password" what do you
do in the situation give her the pin and in
return ask for being released or tell her to
[ __ ] off well if you had to choose between
both you should pick number two because there is
rarely anything good coming from being blackmailed
and that is the point here why would she release
you when you could just report her afterwards
she can't take that risk she is on parole now i
get that you don't know that but it doesn't change
anything if you get blackmailed into giving
something of value to someone explicitly for
being freed then you would certainly report
that person afterwards right so unless the
person who blackmails you is a complete idiot
there is no way that you will be released
and knowing that gives you an edge so hear me
out first of all i would give her my phone or
whatever she asks for only in return of my insulin
shot because my first priority is to survive
and second the person blackmailing me has no
disadvantage in passing me the syringe right
once i got it i would continue as follows Diana
obviously looks out for material gain she seems
to be in a bad situation so i would sympathize
with her first i mean i haven't bought Chris
Voss negotiation class but the 1 billion times i
have seen that youtube ad was enough for me to be
prepared i would let her know that i understand
her circumstance and that we both could benefit
from the situation i would make sure to be sincere
about it any fake tone in my voice and we are done
the goal of a blackmailer is to get as much
as she can while not being at a disadvantage
since your biggest threat is not to be freed her
biggest threat lies in being caught by the police
so i would try to lure out the good person within
her telling her how lucky i am to have her around
i would let her know that without her i would
have died and that she is a hero saying stuff
like that either works or it doesn't if it doesn't
that means that she is probably not into it
because of an emotional reward but solely in
it for the cash and if that's the case then
i would have to decide do i want to give this
cheeky bastard what she wants or will i just
shut down and just stay within the pool until it
opens its doors again well the choice is up to
you but whatever you do and i will tell you what
i would do you should not do what our girls do
what the hell that's like the worst thing
you can do and it serves no purpose other
than agitating your punisher and unless you're
okay with being killed then this is a bad idea
especially when you aren't the only person in this
position that's just selfish jesus Jonna must have
thought oh the situation can't get worse well i
don't know where she's from but man i don't think
there is any situation that can't get worse and
as we can see the next move from Diana is turning
off the heat and turning on fresh chlorine flow
yep not only are you stuck in a public pool but
now you're also freezing your ass off while
slowly being intoxicated by a poisonous gas
great thanks Jonna at this point not just is
it more uncomfortable to be in there but you
will also not survive until Tuesday unless Diana
frees you and that is bad because i don't think
she likes you anymore you are in deep trouble my
friend and you have failed every chance you got
and you kept making things worse you need a talent
for that at this point your future is in the
hands of an ex-convict that you have stabbed five
minutes ago it doesn't take a genius to figure out
that you have made the wrong decisions more than
just once plus in my opinion the worst thing is
Bree still has not received her medicine yet the
girls just didn't negotiate well they have just
viewed themselves as the victim without concluding
that they too have the power it may didn't seem
like it but i assure you that is the case there
were multiple chances our girls had at the very
least they should have not agitated Diana that way
they would have remained in a heated pool until
the holidays came to an end and with having cash
on bank accounts having phones and other valuables
at hand they could have easily negotiated a
deal for getting Bree's medicine especially
when saying the following sentence look Diana
just turn up the heat and pass me my medicine
and when you're at it please get us some food as
well then take my core on everything that's inside
and get the hell out of the country we survive and
you have the time to escape i mean think about it
if you were Diana and one of the girls
would have told you to give you her car
in return of the insulin in her purse would
you have done it of course you would have
the trade-off would it be completely in your
favor that's a no-brainer because if i were the
blackmailer and i had to carve my victim i would
jump in there and get myself to Mexico faster
than you can call me gringo that's for sure but
for some reason the girls didn't think that far
so what would have you done in this situation how
would have you managed to get out of there let
me know your strategy oh and by the way the
movie ended in a happy end Diana ultimately
didn't kill anyone she just desperately needed
some money to solve her own struggles which i
guess we can understand granted though um her
way to get there was uh was a bit questionable
but eventually she came around so that's a
good thing in the end she freed them bree
got her shots and everyone survived there
you go thanks for watching as always peace